# charting_crowdfunding
Using an Excel Workbook, modify and analyze data to uncover market trends

### Results

One conclusion we can draw from the campaigns data is that May through July seemed to be the most successful time for campaigns. We can see this in the increase on the of values of the successful campaigns and the decrease in failed campaigns on the third pivot table and pivot chart during May, June, and July. We can also conclude that what the parent category was did not have much of an effect on the successfulness of the campaign. Almost all the categories had around 50 percent successful campaigns. Another conclusion from this data is that the subcategory may have a slight effect on the successfulness of the campaigns. Again, most of the subcategories had around a 50 to 60 percent success rate, but there were five the either under preformed or over preformed. Mobile games and science fiction had around 30 percent success while web had 70 percent and audio and world music had 10 percent success rate. 

I think one limitation of this data set is that there is not an equal amount of parent categories and subcategories. This can affect how we interpret the data. For example, plays had the most successful outcomes out of all the categories, leading some to believe that plays did the best. If you look closer you will see that plays had 54% successful outcomes, which is not the best of all the subcategories. The best is audio and world music with 100% successful outcomes. But again, but we must look at that very closely since audio only had four campaigns and world music only had three campaigns.

I think one table that would help us see some different information would be to create a table with the percent successful, failed, canceled, and live for each parent category and subcategory. This way we can see a better comparison of which parent category or subcategory was more successful. Another table and graph we could create would be looking at the backer count versus the outcomes of the campaigns. This would give us a clearer look to see if the number of backers had an effect if the campaign was successful or not. 

The median is better than the mean to summarize the data in a more meaningfully way. The mean can be skewed by outliers whereas the median is the middle of the values. In this case since the range for the number of backers is so large and there appears to be some outliers, I think median will give us a more meaningfully summary.  

According to the data, the successful campaigns have more variability. This makes sense since the successful campaigns had a larger range of data compared to the unsuccessful campaigns. I also think another reason that the unsuccessful campaigns had less variability is that they had a lot of values repeat. For example, there was 17 backer counts that had one and six backer counts that had 15. Whereas the successful campaigns still had some values that repeated but they did not repeat as long.
